# SmartMirror
My senior project

ABSTRACT
The purpose of this project is to design a smart mirror that will enhance users' experience using a mirror. A smart mirror is a device that functions as a mirror with additional capabilities displaying images, weather, and a calendar. This is a smart appliance that would work well for those who have a busy life and work schedule. This appliance can seamlessly be added to the user’s morning routine benefitting the user as it updates them with their schedule for the day, weather, traffic etc. A two-way mirror will be needed to display the smart mirror and have real-time date, weather, and schedule. The two-way mirror needs to be transparent enough to see through the mirror but reflective enough to achieve the mirror effect. The quality of the two-way glass will determine how well the applications will be displayed for the user. Transparency percentage measures the display quality that will be shown through the mirror. Along with the percentage of reflection and transparency, we also must take the undertone of the two-way mirror into consideration as it could greatly affect the colors when the display is on. For the display, a television was donated which weighs about 10lbs. Through extensive research and to keep costs limited, two design implementations were opted, allowing us to keep the costs to a minimum. A new approach for this project was thought of in a much simpler way. An adapter would be used connecting from the user’s phone to an HDMI cord also attached to the TV. This way the phone screen will be mirrored onto the smart mirror and the user will be able to change the screen to use other applications such as Instagram, Twitter, etc. A framework will be designed from wood and act as a prop the two-way mirror and to hide the television from the user’s view. Since the two-way mirror will be cut to the desired size it would be best to cover the edges as well for safety reasons. The frame will also act as a bearer for the display and two-way mirror from degrading, yellowing, and/or pets.

Software implementation will be done using swift language. This would be my first time using swift, fortunately there are open sources for the language. There was an issue with importing the UIKit that allows iOS development on VSCode, therefore we had to switch the IDE for XCode which was much more user friendly. XCode is supported through Apple making it much easier to visually see the front end of the app. Once the application is first opened, a window will pop up asking permission to access Calendar. In order to display the user's schedule for the day, the user should allow the app to access events. Ideally the user would use this app horizontally so that the whole screen is used when it is displaying in the smart mirror. While working on the final layout of the display, there seemed to be a hierarchy for events. OpenWeather and Apple’s tool events would not allow them both to fit in the same frame simultaneously. Instead, since events are a higher priority than the weather, we made that be the first thing users see so that they know what they have for that day.

Since this project is made specifically for iPhones, it would be great to further develop this project for Android users as well. For that to happen the language would completely need to change and fortunately is supported by the IDE XCode. Along with that, a new calendar would need to be used for both platforms. It is preferred to use a raspberry pi instead of an HDMI cable for this type of project to hardcode the layout of the display.


PROJECT OBJECTIVES
There are many different ways to go about displaying the multimedia data on the screen of the television. The engineer could hardcode the smart mirror using a raspberry pi or create a phone application that would be mirrored on the display. Ideally it would be resourceful to have this done for both Apple and Android users, however since the user for this project is an apple user, this project will be done specifically for Apple users. Given that this project will be self-funded, the goal is to save on costs as much as possible. The goal for costs is to stay below $150. The user should be able to easily interact with the smart mirror such as scrolling through apps. Figure 1 presents a simple block diagram for the user interaction and displays the applications to the user. The goal for this smart mirror will be to display the weather, date, and schedule simultaneously for the day on the screen.

